>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
now we have the template,
the next step is to actually
write the JavaScript part,
because every web component is
first a JavaScript class, so
I need to create within public always
I'm going to create a new folder.
Let's call it components, where we're
going to write all our components.
So we're going to start creating
the home page component,
homepage js and
components are classics, so
I'm going to create a class and
I'm going to export the class so
anyone can use it from the outside,
so we can call this homepage.
And the important part here
is that we are going to
extend from HTML element
that is what makes it
an HTML element but
how does the browser know that
I want this element to
respond to homepage?
It It won't get it automatically so
to that,
we need to call the custom elements
API after we set after or before.
It doesn't matter the class, and
we're going to define a new element,
home page, and
the class will be home page.
Have in mind every time you
define a new custom element,
it's mandatory to have a hyphen,
at least one.
It's mandatory from the HTML spec so
if you're going to create a custom
element, it shouldn't be just one word.
You need at least two, so
you can use a prefix from your app,
like up dash something, or, for
example, in this case, home page, okay.
And now the next step is, okay,
I need to do something when
I'm actually rendering this so
I wanna get the template and
do something with it, okay.
So for that but there are two
places where I can put some code,
one is the constructor, and
the other one is the connected callback.
Connected callback is a method
that we can override from
the superclass be careful with the second,
capital C the connected callback when
that element is actually in a DOM.
It's actually pushed into the DOM,
it will execute that function,
it's like an event, okay,
like a mounted event over our element.
So and here I can just try to get
the template from the DOM, so
I will say, get element by ID.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And I will get
the template home, I think that's how
I call it, let me check,
yep, template_home, and
now I am the element, okay,
so I am and DOM element.
So this is my DOM, I'm an element, okay,
so I'm going to do it wrong first,
so I can append child
to myself the template,
this is not gonna work, by the way, right?
It's wrong, but let me explain why but
first, this is kind of the idea,
okay, so we grab the template and
then we use it in ourself, okay,
the problem is that templates cannot be
used directly, because they are templates.
They are like classes versus objects,
so they are not the instance,
they are the class.
They are the model to create
the instances, so what we need
to do with that template is that we
need to call widget take its content and
call clone node,template,content
dot clone node.
And we need to specify if db is true,
actually,
if inside that template there
are other web components if we want
also to do the whole deep
creation of components, okay.
For now, we can say true, and
this is actually the content
that I can push into myself,
not the template, okay, does it make.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: We need
to do this on every component so
if you want this is our op.
So we can create a base class and
then call it and
then create sub-classes inheriting from
that base class, because it's our op.
This is JavaScript, not go we can doop,
we had inheritance It, and
all that stuff, all that stuff.
If I do that now and I refresh,
I'm still not seeing that,
and it's expectable, you say maybe you
were not expecting that you see something.
Because let's review what we have,
we have an index html,
the index html has the home page,
and we have already
registered that when we have
that element we want it
to render this element.
And this element will take the template
and push a clone of that template,
an instance of that template into here,
so in the homepage.
So actually, we should see something like
this, this part should be now a clone,
should be inside homepage, but
it's not working, does anyone know why?
You have an imported homepage anywhere.
Exactly, the browser has
never imported homepage, so
it has never executed this line, okay?
So, this is important you have to
import somewhere somewhere in the in
the dependency tree so for example i can
go to my app i'm i even i'm not using
it from javascript right now just for
html but i need to import that now.
So I will use this kind of import
I will say component homepage JS,
if I do that at least
the browser will now recognize
that components homepage
JS has something inside.
Okay, another way instead of doing this,
and instead of creating the HTML,
like this if I can go to app JS I mean,
you can do it however you want.
I can go to app JS and I can say something
like, window, not document, window,
add even listener, DOM, content loaded
do you all know what that means?
>> Speaker 3: When it reads a page.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It will be
executed when the page was parsed and
the DOM is ready.
So here, I can go and
grab by query selector
my main element and I can append a child,
and I can say that I wanna create here,
when I add here a new what home page.
Now it's gonna import that
home page the classic
way because now I'm doing
it from JavaScript,
okay, does it make sense?
That's another way to do the same thing,
but from JavaScript, so
when the page loads,
I'm creating a new home page.
And I'm appending that inside the main so
if I wanna see if this is working,
I go here refresh,
and I can see that is
rendering the template that I
have just cloned and
pushed into this, okay?
So that's roughly how
a web component works.